# Project Meetings

## 27.09.2022
### General Meeting
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander
- Other two groups

#### protocol
- Project kickoff
- Introduction to Github, StoriesOnBoard and Test Driven Development

## 11.10.2022
### Sprint Review / Sprint Planning of Demo Sprint
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Presentation of FizzBuzz implementation (Go, Next.js)
- Discussed first data-model
- Planned first real sprint (Rest endpoints for habits and journal entries)

### General Meeting
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander
- Other two groups

#### protocol
- Present what we have done to the other teams
- Have a look at the other teams progress

## 18.10.2022
### Sprint Review / Sprint Planning
#### present
- Fuhrer Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Presentation of PocketBase api endpoints
- Plan next sprint

## 20.10.2022
### General Meeting
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Use Kotlin instead of Go & the PocketBase framework
- Rewrite the backend in Kotlin
- Make a first Figma prototype of the UI

## 25.10.2022
### Sprint Review / Sprint Planning
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Continue with all open stories of Sprint 2 by tuesday, 01.11.2022
- Develop a first UI version
- After this one-week sprint, we continue with 2-week sprints
- In the meeting, we all talk about the sprint goal
- The students made a proposal for the user stories to be worked on
- Use "Spring-Data" in the backend

## 01.11.2022
### Sprint Review / Sprint Planning
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Presented V1 and V2 of the prototype
- Presented first UI components
- Discussed Spring Data and agreed not to use it
- Planned sprint (Blocker for presentation and Blockweek)

## 03.11.2022
### Backlog Refinement
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Fine-tuned prototype to exactly match the requirements
- Had a short look on future features
- Topic Figma:
  - Don't put more in the prototype than discussed beforehand --> Scope Creep
  - Put it in a different area for the time being.
- Topic Cascade Delete:
  - Don't use cascade delete for habits/journal entries
  - Use on delete set null
  - (Idea) Work with id's wherever possible. Not with whole objects
- Topic StorieOnBoard chaos:
  - No sub-tasks/technical stories on this board
  - Use "Convert to issue" feature on Github to create sub-tasks

## 08.11.2022
### Intermediate Presentations
#### present
- Multiple groups

#### protocol
- Presented our work and scrum process
- Watched presentations by other teams

## 14.11.2022
### Sprint Review / Sprint Planning
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Short call as we were in the Blockweek
- Presented UI components for journal entry
- Presented integration of habit UI components
- Discussed the next sprint (Frequency feature, input validation and PoC Authentication)

## 22.11.2022
### Backlog Refinement
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Discussed a new feature to group habits
- Current UI --> Improvements in Navigation
- Discussion Unit tests and Authentication/Authorization
- Cleaned up Epics and User Stories

### Mid Sprint Meeting
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Show progress of Authentication PoC
- Show progress of frequency feature

## 29.11.2022
### Sprint Review / Sprint Planning
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Show better input validation, standalone log entry creation
- Show working Authentication
- Plan next sprint (Documentation update, navigation, re-enable unit tests, open api documentation)

## 06.12.2022
### Mid Sprint Meeting
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Show progress of sprint

## 13.12.2022
### Sprint Review / Sprint Planning
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Show group habits feature, navigation improvements, open api documentation
- Finalisation of the whole Auth topic with all Unit tests green again
- Plan next sprint (Score for habit, documentation, small fixes)

## 20.12.2022
### Mid Sprint Meeting
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- Show progress of sprint
- Agreed to finish on technical tasks and focus on documentation and presentation

## 10.01.2023
### Sprint Review / Sprint Planning
#### present
- Bigler Andy
- Fuhrer Jan
- Lauber Jan
- Mowers Anthony Alexander

#### protocol
- ToDo

## 17.01.2023
### Final presentation
#### present
- Multiple groups

#### protocol
- ToDo

# Team Internal

## Retro

### 11.10.2022
#### Retro
- Assign ScM role and define Scrum process

### 20.10.2022
#### Retro
- Deal with technology change challenges. See how we can achieve it in the team.
- Quite some stress because of civil service, sickness and working abroad

### 25.10.2022
#### Retro
- Slowly things are getting clearer
- We need a PO in our team to make live easier

### 01.11.2022
#### Retro
- Good work with Figma and UI foundation
- Focus on presentation

### 15.11.2022
#### Retro
- Quick round as we were in the Blockweek
- Finally, stable application that works and that we can use as a foundation
- Need to make sure we have enough tasks defined to work on now

### 29.11.2022
#### Retro
- Struggling with the authentication topic
- Mostly Blockweek in this Sprint

### 13.12.2022
#### Retro
- Was probably not a good idea to not build Auth from the start
- Disabling unit tests was also not a good idea
- After clean up finally back in green everything

### 10.01.2023
#### Retro
- Good team work in this sprint
- We could finish almost all the tasks
- Should not have planed more technical features as we had to focus on documentation and presentation

## "Daily"
### 29.09.2022
- How to do FizzBuzz with Go, PocketBase & Nest.js

### 04.10.2022
- Pair together on Docker setup and documentation

### 08.10.2022
- Help for logging in Go

### 14.10.2022
- Help for PocketBase setup

### 21.10.2022
- Distribute work for backend rewrite

### 23.10.2022
- Pair on Figma prototype
- Improve Scrum process

### 27.10.2022
- Pair on Spring Data exploration
- Help for first UI components

### 30.10.2022
- Share progress of UI and Figma

### 04.11.2022
- Inform team after Backlog Refinement
- Assign tasks for presentation
- Discuss how to make UI ready for presentation

### 07.11.2022
- Go through presentation
- Feedback on slides and Scrum document

### 12.11.2022
- Sync on prototype
- Pair on integration of journal entry component

### 19.11.2022
- Longer break because of Blockweek
- Discuss bugs regarding frontend input validation

### 24.11.2022
- Present PoC for Authentication

### 27.11.2022
- Present integration of standalone journal entry

### 30.11.2022
- Distribute work in the team

### 03.12.2022
- Pairing on new backend features

### 07.12.2022
- Show progress on UI

### 10.12.2022
- Pair programming to refactor backend
- Work together on auth

### 15.12.2022
- Split work
- Discussed hot to implement small fixes

### 21.12.2022
- Last discussion in this year
- What did we do and what is still open for the next year
- Prepare everything to complete the project

### 06.01.2023
- Short sync of what was done during the holidays
- Discuss what we want need to do in the next sprint
